# Clearscope - How Answer Engine Optimization (AEO) Works + AEO Playbook with Bernard Huang

**Source URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Ldce9z_ZuM

---

So, my name is Bernard. I am one of the founders at Clear Scope. And as you know, AEO GEO LLM N O has been on the tips of everyone's tongues, especially since the release of Chat GPT November of 2022. So, it's been about three years and the entire search landscape has really taken a change to how all of this works. First off, we have Google switching from search generative experience to AI overviews. And then you have kind of this decrease of clicks that you see going on, leaving, of course, all SEO and content practitioners puzzled, confused, and nervous about what's happening with their traffic, and more importantly, what to do about it. In today's webinar, we'll cover what's been going on, the differences between SEO versus AEO and GEO, our understanding of how AI constructs responses, and how to influence them using the AEO playbook that we've been testing rigorously. We'll then talk about how to track AEO progress and how that's different than search engine optimization. And then we'll take a look at some early evidence that proves that these tactics are working. And then we'll take questions where we can do live examples and or just chat about anything that you would like. Since I'm the only one on this webinar, if you could put your questions in the Q&A module, I believe that would be best. Although I'm like looking I don't know we have a Q&A. So just drop it in chat if there is no Q&A module and we'll get to it when we get to it. All right. So first things first, the backdrop. The backdrop is that traffic is gone. Not gone gone, but falling steeply off a cliff. And so, as you've seen, informational queries are being cannibalized by Google AI overviews and impressions are spiking, but clicks are really not growing at the same rate that they used to be. And that's leaving a lot of SEO and content teams puzzled and scared. We have AI overviews answering the queries themselves and therefore not sending as much traffic. And we have search becoming conversational, right? With Google's AI mode right around the corner and chat GPT taking a chunk out of how people retrieve information online, we're starting to see a very massive shift in terms of how to approach this new world of search. Also, pretty recently, Google announced that they are going to be routing complex queries to AI. And I think that that's Google's acknowledgement to say for certain types of queries, you know, the plan a 3-day itinerary, familyfriendly, indoor, those kinds of things that AI mode and AI generated responses are just going to be better than the 10 blue links that you see naturally. and for at least the last like 20 years. So that brings us to what we as SEO and content practitioners are then struggling with, right? Execs are breathing down the backs of SEO and content teams and they are saying where is our answer engine optimization strategy? You know, what are we going to do about the loss in clicks and traffic? And I think everyone is scrambling to figure that out. And there's a lot more questions these days than there are answers. That said, we hope to bring you to a new world of thinking about answers rather than searches. So, this is a funny graphic that one of our team members Dave created, but there's been a lot of talk that AEO, GEO, AI, SEO is really just SEO. And in a lot of ways, this does hold true. We also have Google coming out and saying, you know, good GEO is really just good AEO or SEO. And you'll just see here that they are minorly different in specific ways. So AEO is about fighting for influencing the response that Gemini or Chad GPT or any of these other chat bots are going to give you, right? And so instead of the 10 blue links and the rankings that you get from search, instead you are fighting for being a part of the answer. By being a part of the answer, then your brand is rewarded with mentions and branded search. And in the traditional SEO world, you would be rewarded with search traffic. Also important to point out is that answer engine optimization is probabilistic in the sense that the response that you get is likely going to be different than the response that I get. And that's likely to vary daytoday, week to week, as the models just read and respond differently. Whereas in the traditional SEO sense, right, there were basically 10 blue links and your ranking was your ranking. It didn't fluctuate that much unless Google dropped a big update. So again, this is Google. They like to reiterate that good SEO is just good GEO. And again, in a lot of ways, this is true. However, there are some core differences in how to think about it. And that revolves around the playbook that we're about to present and also the way to track whether or not you're seeing good progress with your AEO strategies. So, what we like to say at Clear Scope is that AEO versus SEO, why don't you just tackle both? That brings us to the anatomy of how an AI response gets generated. And what we are looking at is the stack in which an LLM generates a response. At the very top layer, when a user prompts an agent for any given question, you get back an answer. However, how that answer gets created is within three distinct layers, right? We have a training data layer where the large language model is trained on a variety of documents and those documents come with a knowledge cutoff in the training data layer. The variables that would affect those particular training data would be SEO which is domain and topic authority and a newer component which is brand authority which happens to do with how well your brand gets mentioned alongside topics and entities that you want it to be associated with. Other things that LLMs will look at which is again is different than SEO is the brand sentiment or online reputation for whatever it's recommending. So things like Google My Business reviews, Capterra G2 reviews and or just how the general ecosystem is talking about your brand gets valued a lot more and again is different than what you would normally associate with traditional SEO. From there, what the agents do is that they validate their answer before giving the enduser a response. And why you see agents perform web searches and to do reasoning and research is to make sure that they're preventing as much biases, inaccuracies, and hallucinations with their answers. Lastly, you have the memory and context layer, which is just based off of the past conversations that you've had with your different AI chat bots. And in my opinion, this is largely a black box because we don't know how AI is completely using the past context in memory and or you know how an AI is going to continue to use those moving forward. That brings us to well the first step right how LMS are trained. Not going to get too much into the weeds here but what happens is that there's text from the web there are scientific articles. There's books. There's Wikipedia. And what LLM do is they ingest a large data set of documents that then train its understanding around the topics that the LLM is being asked. As you know, there was a Google uh you know, Google shut off the top 100 rankings thing I think around September. And what happened was that large language models were relying on the Google search index to feed their training data. And that kind of caused a catastrophic loss in both clicks, impressions across the board. But it was really Google just saying look you know we have a valuable data set and we don't want other AI models training on them. Training data as you know or may not know comes with a knowledge cutoff. You can see here the latest Gemini models were trained on documents up till January of 2025. Now, Google, Chat, GPT, Perplexity, all these different large language models are constantly trying to update their data sets, but training a new large language model is pretty expensive. And so, oftent times you're going to see a very strong delay in the amount of time before an AI model updates the documents that are used to train it. What then the AI does as a result of having potentially gaps within its knowledge base for the topics that have been you know discussed or talked about between the knowledge cutoff January of 2025 with Google in this case and today is that they want to then validate whether or not the responses that they've prepared are accurate and upto-date. This is the reason why AI performs web searches, right? AI wants to prevent inaccuracies caused by outdated training data and to then make sure that the responses they're giving back are up todate. This is also why when you ask chat GPT, you will notice that sometimes it will search and sometimes it will not search. The reason why it searches is because the AI is determining whether or not the existing training data can give an accurate answer for the prompt that the user asked. If it's something that the AI detects as okay, you know, we already know the answer, then the AI is going to respond solely on the training data. That said, right, if it thinks that the topic has evolved or has had some variance within, then the AI will perform a web search to validate the facts and then right AI will determine if past context and memory will matter before then generating the response. So you'll see here right the validation layer with AI web searches can be seen when you look under the hood of how AI thinks or reasons about any particular prompt that you asked it. This is a screenshot of Google AI Studio with grounding enabled. And you can see here that for the prompt that I asked it, SEO trends for 2026, you'll see that it thinks through the response and then gives us the ability to look at how the AI is reasoning about this particular topic. This then is used to generate the the response but not before the memory and context is then added to the response to then get some sort of a personalized answer for every end user. This is why you'll see here in chat GPT and Gemini, right? They have this concept of of memory. And memory again is just based on all of the past conversations that you've had and what it's able to infer from those particular uh contexts. So you can see here this is again Google coming out to say that when a question is asked it goes to the LLM but the LLM does ground its response with searches and then answers the question that the user has largely then right what what we're seeing is that AEO just has an added layer of large language model reasoning but it's still grounded in search engine optim optimization. This then presents us the ability to start to think about AEO and the playbook that we've been seeing work. So in essence, if you have on the left an AI response being created by training data, research and validation followed by memory and context. Then we can say the two ways that we as brands can influence an AI response is by either affecting the training data layer or affecting the validation layer. The training data layer, as you've seen in a previous slide, is really slow, right? Gemini released their model, their newest model, model 3, and the training data cutoff is still January of 2025. So by publishing content and just hoping for an inclusion that is both unreliable and also really slow or what we can do is that we can try to feed the agent relevant up-to-date content while it's performing its research and validation for the answer and therefore influence the answer and win citations along the way. This becomes then the onpage AEO playbook that we've been recommending for our customers, our audiences and we're seeing this work. So step by step, you know, I'm just going to cover at least the broad high levels and then we'll talk about each one of the individual steps, but step one is to understand the AI topic model, right? So we want to know what the AI thinks about your brand. We want to know what kinds of topics your brand cares about in terms of owning and winning for you know your goals whether they be revenue or services or you know whatnot. Then what we want to do is we want to understand how that how we can intersect the agents during their topic research phase. So, as you know, AI will perform web searches depending on whether or not it thinks that the response that it's going to give back deserves something a bit more upto-date. You will see that Gemini has a distinct advantage in this particular field because Gemini is owned by Google. For chat GPT to go and scrape Google and Bing, it's going to be a lot more expensive because they don't inherently have that data and that knowledge. whereas Google does. So Google and Gemini tends to perform way more searches and therefore produce more accurate and up-to-date responses compared to ChatGpt. Lastly, we'll talk about how to actually influence the AI response and what that means from your brand, your tracking, and your goals perspective. So step one, understand AI topic models. What we want to do here is to a understand where our original topic authority is for our brand and then to understand whether or not we have gaps within the topics that we want to own and or identify new topics to own here. I know there's a bit of debate around, you know, asking AI for its opinion on a brand or, you know, what it thinks about certain things, but in essence, it's also not bad, right? So, you can see here, you can just simply go to Gemini and ask, okay, what are the core topics that are associated with your brand? and Gemini will come back and say okay you know these are the things that I think about like content optimization topical authority keyword research so on and so forth this then presents us with our first glance at our topical authority for a brand from here what we would generally recommend is a keyword clustering exercise in clear scope we have a keyword cluster where you can type in a highle topic like content optimization And you can see very quickly where a domain is strong in the topics that you want to, you know, own and earn and more importantly where a brand is weak. At Clear Scope, as you can see here, this is our live data. Social media content optimization is rather weak, but we excel at all of the other content optimization based queries because we've created a lot of content for that. So that's again topic research based off of existing owned content, but there's also topic research based off of new topics. And again, this process looks very similar to how traditional SEO would look, but you're looking at competitors, you're looking at, you know, different topics that you want to pursue and own further. and you want to cluster those together to understand right all of the relevant subtopics that you want to you know continue to tackle. This brings us to the next phase of AEO and this is where things start to differ compared to the trai traditional SEO practice. Prompt tracking in a lot of ways is very similar to rank tracking in the traditional uh SEO waya but there are nuances to how this works. So we will explore all of those in the next few slides. Number one, you know, a lot of people will ask, okay, you know, we care about Perplexity and Claude and Deepseek and Manis and all these other, you know, AI chatbot platforms, but really and ultimately, I think that Gemini and ChatGpt are the only AI platforms that are going to matter. And as you can see here, this is a similar web uh graphic that just showcases that Gemini is continuing to increase market share and it's likely to continue as Google keeps adding fuel to its Gemini fire. All right, number two is prompt tracking is important to tackle the entirety of a target topic. Right? Right. In SEO speak, we've been calling this query fan out to say that when somebody asks an LLM for a particular prompt there, what the AI is going to do is it's going to fan out a variety of searches based off of the topic that you asked it and its understanding of you as a person. Therefore, creating content to tackle the entirety of all of the subtopics then increases your brand's surface area to then be included as a citation and influence the response that the AI is going to give back. Prompt tracking then looks like this, right? Users ask AI question ask questions to AI and those are like usually questionled, right? Generally speaking, using people also ask and or just Google autocomplete suggestions around the most popular questions is going to be the best way to determine what are the most popular prompts that people are asking for a given topic. And what we can then do is to use monthly searches as a proxy indicator for prompt volume because well there's no real way to actually gauge how many prompts are happening for the topics that you care about. So, prompt tracking is important because not only does it give you the ability to see how AI is responding to a particular prompt, whether or not you're getting brand mentions or AI citations, but more importantly, where it is valuable is to understand the reasoning and the research process that is going behind the scenes for the AI to create your response. You can see here again a Google AI studio uh screenshot but for SEO trends 2026 you can see that it's searching right I've initiated a deep dive for SEO trends for 2026 future of search optimization and then you can see at the bottom of the response that it gives me that the four keywords that the model used to perform its research and validation were these specific ones. Why this starts to get very interesting happens to deal with the again intersection of the AI agent at the validation and research level. So this is where you start to see one of the core differences between answer engine optimization and search engine optimization. Search engine optimization as you can see here on the left targets keywords that users are typing into Google. We then have a search volume that we care about that's paired with a keyword difficulty. And then we understand, you know, whether or not it's top of funnel, bottom of funnel. We create our topic clusters. We implement the hub and smoke model. And we get the traffic from where the users are typing in the keywords for, you know, the different keywords that they're looking for. Answer engine optimization looks very different because instead of targeting what users are researching with monthly search volume, we're targeting what agents are thinking when they are creating their responses for the prompts that you're typing in. Right? So topic research begins to look at prompt tracking, but more importantly the reasoning chain that leads to the web searches that the AI is using when performing additional research and validation on the topic that you're writing about. So you can see here example prompt, how can I optimize content for SEO? What you can see on the left is that in clear scope will show you the entire fanout of web searches or queries that each agent whether it be Gemini or GPT is performing. What you will notice again on the left is that there are some SEO type queries, right? SEO content optimization best practices or keyword research for SEO content, right? Those look pretty normal and could be what users actually want to search. But in other cases, what you'll be noticing is that the AI web searches look very different and distinct, right? Content quality and EAT in SEO. What does that even mean? Right? If we look then on the right, what you'll notice is that the keywords that AI agents are searching are a lot of the time not at all correlated with the traditional keyword research that's based off of user search volume. In this particular example, right, there's 170 searches for keyword research for SEO content, but basically nothing else that the a user would normally type into Google search. What then this looks like to me is well, kind of in the early days of when AI is being tasked to generate images, it looks a little hallucinatory, right? It looks a little weird, a little wobbly, but this presents us as SEO and content practitioners a distinct opportunity to influence the AI answer. So next part is to understand again how to intersect the AI research for the topics that you want to target. So first a brief under reunderstanding of search engine optimization, right? you, if you've been paying attention to the space, would have known that Google was being sued for an antitrust case a while back for being a monopoly on search, so on and so forth. During that lawsuit, what was discovered, but more importantly validated within the SEO community is that Google uses user engagement signal to basically figure out whether or not a piece of content deserves to be in positions, you know, 1, two, three, so on and so forth. So through this interaction where users are typing in keywords, then looking at a set of 10 blue links and clicking on one of those results, Google is able to interpret that, you know, result two might be better than result number one, even though it may not necessarily completely know or understand what's on the page. Where I'm going with this is that in an AEObased world where agents and AI are performing the searches and the searches having no to low monthly searches means that the AI is forced to weight other variables more to basically figure out whether or not content is relevant because again not as many real users are going to be searching for the targeted AI web searches. that we see what we're starting to see then and this is why you hear the terms chunking cosign similarity passage relevance is that the AI is starting to rely more on topic authority and relevance right in a traditional world that you see on the right keyword research looks at monthly search volume keyword difficulty and intent top middle bottom of funnel and then what ends up being scored or how that content gets ranked is based off of user engagement which is where the concept of EAT came from in the first place. But again in an AI web search world where uh you know some of the queries that it's performing have no to low monthly search volume that would mean that again from a traditional SEO perspective SEO content creators wouldn't have created any content to target that particular web search right so there's going to be no to low competition therefore right if no users are actually searching for it what is the AI going to think to then evaluate whether or not that piece of content looks high quality and relevant, right? It doesn't have as much user engagement that it can rely on. So then it looks at different attributes which are going to be things like topical authority and entity relevance. Just an interesting theory that I saw on X the other day, but it goes to show that keyword research using AI web searches is an entitybased matter. Right? on the right. What David is arguing is that you know in the past short queries would have split their you know entities and their weights very you know like small right you have lawyer and you have c credentials and that's a 50-50 split but the reasoning as to why you see AI performing these longer tail searches is because you know they want to catch as many of these different embeddings and entities as they can and that is just again Another further nod to say that keyword research using AI web searches behaves fundamentally quite differently than the traditional user engagement signal targeting users. All right, the next step is to create quality content not necessarily for users anymore but for artificial intelligence. Again, just pointing out that a lot of these types of queries that AI web search is performing is going to be no to low keyword search volume, which means a lot weaker user engagement, which means that the models are going to be looking again at different things like topic authority, entity, passage, relevance, so on and so forth. At Clear Scope, this has been our bread and butter, right? to tell you what are the entities that are most important for any given topic that you want to create content on. Next up, publish the content. Again, right, this content is meant to be for agents and AI, but it just behaves in the same way as normal content in all kinds of different shapes and forms. All right, last phase of the AEO playbook is to actually influence the AI response. So you'll see here that AI citations influence AI responses, right? In this GIF that I have on the right, I'm clicking on, you know, a variety of these different link icons. And you can see here what Google is trying to tell me is that the reasoning as to how it's able to have created the block the chunk that you see on the right is because you know these two particular sources or citations kind of gave it confidence that this is correct. Right? So clicking around you can see you know a variety of citations being used to then generate the response that Gemini or in this case Google's AI mode thinks is relevant. This is again why a lot of people say okay well AI cited pages you know they have a freshness factor and that's very important and it's important because right AI is looking at these pages to supplement its knowledge gaps within the topic between you know its training data and today and again it's also trying to prevent any hallucinations and inaccuracies therefore freshness becomes a lot more important from an AI I perspective compared to an SEO p uh perspective. AI cited pages then likely get you included in training data updates. I do not have conclusive evidence that points one way or another. It's just more of a speculative theory that at least makes sense to me. Right? So if you are being cited by AI, then chances are the next time the training data updates is your content is going to be part of that knowledge graph moving forward. Lastly, right, what we could do is because we know AI is citing a particular page, we can then improve the brand our brand sentiment on those AI cited pages that then go to again influence the response that the end user is going to get back. So step one in terms of improving that brand sentiment on AI cited pages is one understand which pages you have on your site and which ones are getting cited by which models and for each prompt. So what we do there after that is that we then want to ask chat GPT and Gemini about our brand sentiment and then we want to then massage I call it massage but improve and defend your brand weaknesses. So here is just an example right number one we know that for the topic how much does clear scope cost and the prompt being the same that GPT is citing our pricing page what we can then do is we can then try to understand what is the overall sentiment that's associated with our brand and you can see here I I've clipped this a bit but what do you think about clear scope to chat GPT again because we are getting a citation from chat GPT and you'll see here that uh where it has weaknesses or trade-offs is clear scopees often described as premium in cost. Some reviews say it may be less accessible for solo creators very small teams. Right? So we know then kind of some of the gaps and negative sentiment that the uh the model has against our brand. And what we can then do is go to our pricing page and add a chunk of text that defends or improves the brand sentiment against what the AI model is essentially, you know, already understood about our brand. So you can see here on our FAQs within our pricing page, I can drop a bit of text that says, okay, well, do you offer cheaper plans? And you know, at Clear Scope, we did recently drop our entry-level P plan from 179 to 129 per month. And you can see here, I can then specifically call out that this plan is great for solo creators in very small teams. Again, trying to then intersect and influence the model in its responses that it's going to give to the end user. So ultimately when you've done all of this correctly and you know you've given it some time what you're going to start to see is that you will win AI brand mentions right so for clear scope this is the prompt what are the best SEO tools available you can see here the web searches that were used by Gemini and GPT this one looks a little bit more headterm focused like best SEO tools best SEO tools 2024 and then you can see here both Gemini and chat GPT are recommending ending clear scope. Brand mentions are not always a black or white thing, right? You're not always going to win a brand mention for the topic that you care about because specific prompt intents just don't merit a brand mention, right? Instead about instead for the prompt, what are the best SEO tools available? What if we went with, you know, how to do SEO, right? Again, a bit more of an informational prompt. Well, you can imagine the AIS may or may not mention tools in relation to that particular prompt. So again, winning AI brand mentions only matters specifically for more of the commercial type prompts that people are going to be asking. Lastly, what you want to do is you do want to focus on optimizing your homepage and product pages because generally speaking when AI is citing particular, you know, pages at least when it comes to brand branded type things, product pages are going to matter a lot more, right? So, Google, you can see here, right? Again, it's going to route complex queries directly to AI mode. And therefore what we want to do is to give the AI models as many possible you know chunks and relevant passages and typically the product pages are going to be the best uh ways to influence those particular models. All right AEO is not complete without talking about off- page. I've intentionally like made this section a little bit light because I think overall a lot of the off- page AEO techniques are very similar to the off- page SEO techniques, right? We're talking about PR, backlinks, so on and so forth. The one thing that does stand out as new is going to be brand authority which then looks at brand mentions and more importantly the entities surrounding a brand and online reputation management which is again sentiment reviews and legitimacy. Just pointing out a couple of things here, right? Off- page AEO is again very similar to off-page SEO. Total number of domains, this is a a study that SE ranking did, right? That's going to be the highest correlation as to why you know a brand or a domain gets a Chad GPT citation. And then you'll just see here at the bottom right number of brand mentions on Kora. That's again a newer aspect of AEO compared to GEO. All right. Lastly, when thinking about AEO is how to track it. Again, this is where things start to deviate from SEO, right? We mentioned earlier that AEO versus SEO. But what you're doing here is that you're fighting for influencing the answer instead of rankings. Therefore, you get rewarded with brand mentions instead of search traffic. And again, it looks really different. So, it's your prerogative, if you will, to push back to leadership and content teams specifically when it comes to the fact that they might be breathing down your neck to say, "Okay, traffic is important. Win it back." What we're starting to see is that again, traffic is increasingly a nice side effect of doing well in terms of AI responses, but it's not the reason why AI answers something in the first place, right? AI is answering something not to send you traffic, but to give the best response to the end user. Obviously, getting some citations may then have some users click through to your site, but not necessarily. This is why your traffic is declining and unlikely to come back. Also, it might be catastrophic if and when AI mode becomes more of a default type search. So, just be aware that that's happening. Um, the second leading indicator is winning the AI citation, right? We've covered this at length, but the AI citation basically means that Google or Chad GPT trusts your content enough to cite you to say this is why I am answering this particular prompt in the manner that I am. Okay. So then why does AI citations matter? And you know these are though we looked at the two leading indicators which is impressions and AI citations. Again, why as AI citations matter is that it is the way in my opinion to qualify you for affecting the future training data, right? AI is always looking to improve its knowledge of all topics. And you can kind of see here that the evolution of these different models like GPT1, two and three what it's been looking at at least to start was books and then Reddit and then now it's a combination of common crawl which is just a large index of you know notable like web pages but it's looking again at all kinds of different documents and I would believe that getting an AI citation would then qualify you to influence the future training data for the topics that you care out, right? Ultimately, after having done all of this, the lagging indicator is a brand mention. Again, that just be that depends on the prompt that you're asking. And so, if the prompt that you're asking doesn't deserve a brand mention, of course, you're not going to get it. That's why it's not always a leading indicator. And the other again lagging indicator is branded search, right? If we are fighting for a response, right, influencing the response or the answer, then by winning a brand mention, what is going to likely happen is a branded search rather than again a click or traffic to your site in a, you know, more traditional SEO sense, right? Somebody who sees that Clear Scope or whichever brand gets mentioned for a more commercial prompt that they ask is not going to necessarily then click on, you know, that little box that you see on the right hand side of AI responses. What they're going to do instead is they're going to Google clear scope or your brand and that's going to lead to an increase in branded searches for your domain. Just want to give a shout out to Clear Scope. We do all of the um aspects of the steps that you saw that we just covered, right? We help you understand which topics you are strong and weak in in topic exploration. We then also give you the prompts, but more importantly, whether or not you're being mentioned or cited by the two top models, Gemini and Chad Gupt. And we will also give you the AI web searches that are being performed by each agent. And then we give you the ability to create highquality, highly relevant content that then kind of appeases the AI to then get you the citations that you want that will eventually lead to the brand mentions. All right. So I know that this as a topic is very new and so I just want to point out that we do have a lot of early evidence that points to the fact that targeting AI web searches leads to AI citations which then eventually leads to brand mentions. So Gano here, right? He first called this out by saying like chat GPT referencing AI slob garbage. And Britney, another key influencer in the AI SEO space, just kind of retorts and says, "Okay, but isn't this a reflection of search results?" Right? LLM's require search engines to provide URLs like this. And so again, what we're recommending to our customers, our partners, everybody in the ecosystem is to target the AI web searches and that then leading to AI citations again, right? Instead of user-led monthly search volume keywords, you target the web searches and by doing so, you increase the surface area of your domain and therefore qualify for more AI citations. You can see here just a couple of other domains that we've been testing on. What do pro podcast production agencies do? Literally, you know, that was a web search that was performed by Gemini. And then a couple weeks after publishing, we have the citation for the brand. Same thing here. This is for, you know, our own website. How can brands increase their visibility in the age of uh AI? We target the AI powered marketing for brand visibility. Again, no user-led monthly searches there, but what the agent is reasoning through or researching. And then we get the citation for our brand like this. So, key takeaways, just want to point these out. Your search traffic is not coming back. It's going to decline and it's likely to be declining moving forward, especially as AI surfaces um like AI mode, chat, GPT continue to eat at search. The future of search then becomes a battlefield around influencing the conversations that AI is having with users. Right? So what we want to do is rethink the outcome to be influencing or being a part of the answer rather than traffic. Which means our playbook is similar to SEO. That's why Google runs around saying good SEO is just good AEO or GEO. Except your keyword research targets how agents perform research and you are rewarded with citations and impressions and eventually brand mentions instead of search traffic. Quick start AEO playbook, right? We just covered it. It's all right here for reference. Just want to call out again, traffic in my opinion is a nice side effect of improving AI visibility, but you know, it's not the end all be all. Um, all right. I don't know why this one's coming up kind of dark, but we do have a partner referral program where our partners are earning 30 to 40% referral commissions. You also get free access to Clear Scope Business. So definitely come apply, check that out if this is something that's really interesting to you. And I have a special discount if you want to try Clear Scope today. Uh you can save $30 to $100 depending on which plan that you opt for using my special discount code. All right. Um now on to questions. Questions. Uh let me see if there's been any that Okay, there's two in the Q&A. Okay. So, Ecta asks number one uh with training data cutoff element when it comes to LLM, don't you think it would be difficult for brands when it comes to rebranding their brand? Uh yes, that is quite difficult to do. But it in my opinion is about the same as doing a top level domain migration in the past in you know if you were if we were say Mushi Labs' content tool before and then we wanted to rebrand to clear scope we would expect a large loss in organic traffic. So again nothing new but just to say that you would suffer in in both uh cases. Number two, how to feed the AI agents. As you said, this is the fast way to change the perception of LLMs. Does it change the large narrative of brands in agents memory? Yes. So again, this is all being tested, but we want to intersect the agent during the research layer that it's performing. And then in my opinion, it does influence the uh the narrative like this, right? This is why you see in this particular slide that this graphic eagle like citation even exists because you intersected the agent as it was performing research and therefore you're able to change the outcome uh the response that the agent is um giving back. All right. Ecta has some follow-ups here regarding Guyano's mention of AI slop. Okay. Yep. We're there with improved uh retrieval augmented generation metrics. Will this reduce slop? It's tough to say. I mean, I think that it's really no different than search in this regard, right? In the early days of search, you had a lot of gray hat actors, black hat actors that existed solely to game the the system. In that way, AI and search has always classically struggled with slop or spam. And obviously, the AI teams at GPT or Gemini, I'm sure, are working on this and will improve their algorithms, but there will always be loopholes in the system that people will choose to game and therefore, you know, sloppy garbage will continue to show up and proliferate. Uh but then right it's just a cat and mouse game. In my opinion, what the future of um AI slot like performing well like what you see in this particular particular slide happen is likely some sort of user engagement signal that's based off of the interaction that the user has with the agent. Right? So if I'm prompting the chat GPT for top AI ABM platforms and then it gives back a list right Google or GPT is going to know how I'm responding to it. What's my sentiment? If I'm, you know, dwelling on that response for a long time, if I'm going and performing a search based off of one of its recommendations, if I'm asking follow-up questions. So, a different set of user engagement signals compared to how search was done, right? Search was all click-through rates and dwell time. Whereas other aspects of, you know, positivity within AI responses are likely to look at, you know, response like chain cadence, you know, how quickly am I saying, okay, but what about this or sentiment, you know, I'm like, okay, that's a bad list, right? I think the agents are going to pay attention to that to try to reduce slop recommendations. All right. Tina asks, uh, one slide mentioned on the AEO side is that backlinks don't matter as much. Can you elaborate on this because this has traditionally been a big part of SEO? Yes. So, I think that uh let's go to the off- page like stuff here. I don't think that backlinks don't matter at all. Right. As you can see here, at least with the study with SE ranking, that back links apparently still matter quite a bit. I think that's unlikely to change. Um I it's just to say that there is a newer consideration that is brand mentions and the waiting of the links themselves. I think right if you're if in the past off-page SEO was you know 80% backlink focused I would say that off-page AEO might be 60% backlink focused and 20 to 30% like brand mention focused so just a little bit of a difference and then what I'm also hearing is that the links themselves again aren't mattering as much as the brand mentions themselves so if you have you know like a blog post that's like best SEO tools and it's recommending clear scope but not linking to us. That's just as good as you know not or having the link in the first place. All right. So Tina asks, can you quickly show again how you saw in Google how it was pulling topics to answer queries? Uh yes. So I'll just demonstrate it live over here. You can you all should have access to Google AI Studio. You can see here uh we we're using Gemini flash and thinking mode and grounding with Google search. What you can then do is just ask it whatever you want to ask it. Right? So I can say SEO trends 2026 like this. And then you can see here that in AI studio you can see exactly how the models are reasoning or thinking through the response that they're about to give to the end user. And then at the end, what you'll see when it finishes its response is the display of the search suggestions, which were exactly the searches that Gemini performed to then gather the response that you you see up over here. All right. Ann asks, uh, since AI wants more conversational content, how does Clear Scope draft tools help us do this? And is your AI generated content going to help us there, too? So first maybe a bit of a correction it's AI wants more entity rich and topically relevant content and that again happens to deal with the fact that the reliance on user engagement signal is going to be a lot weaker because the web searches that AI performs right using this as a live example are typically not userled monthly searches. So AI is going to have to depend on other aspects and we are seeing both topical authority passage and entity relevance be play a key part. At Clear Scope, we do have an AI drafting uh tool that gets you a very strong entity rich piece of content, but we also then show you, as you can see here, what those entities are, whether or not they're these entities are being used by the agents, both Gemini and GPT within the answers. So you can see here for content quality and EAT and SEO you can see whether or not the AI uh models Gemini and GPT are using the entities that we are surfacing you to use on the right hand side. All right, Jess asks what would you suggest focusing 100% on AI agent optimization starting now or including a mix of SEO and AEO especially for brands without a strong foundation of SEO content. So the answer is yeah, just split it. Like again, what we're starting to see, I'll just bring up with Clear Scope is that it's a combination of like head topics that agents are are looking at, right? If we look at what are the best SEO tools available and I look at the web searches that are being used live within this particular response, you do have the agents performing some of the head topics, right? Best SEO tools, best SEO tools 2024. But then you start to see some of the, you know, more hallucinatory um web searches that are showing up. So in this particular example, good SEO is good AEO because a lot of the keywords or the web searches that the AI is using are grounded in what traditional users would have searched. where you start to see some variance is, you know, when you start to look at some of these other types of queries or prompts. I mean, again, all of these are just strong like SEO keywords and then some of these become right a lot more weird like deep learning performance tools. It's like, all right, that one's pretty weird. So, good SEO targets the head terms which agents are already performing searches for. It's just that good AEO starts to target the more of the web searches that are being performed which then allows you to influence the response. Okay, few more. Um, Megan asks, "What is the best strategy you have seen to get brand mentions proactively on platforms like Reddit and Kora being banned?" I'll just say that what we see a lot of people doing is using a mention listening tool. uh F5 F5 bot is free. You can basically come in here and um set up a list of keywords or topics that you want to monitor. And then typically what people are doing is that they're going into the places where either their competitors are being mentioned or their own brand is being mentioned or the topics that they care about is being mentioned and thoughtfully contributing to those particular discussions. I mean, yes, sometimes mods will still ban you depending on how aggressive you are with promoting your brand, but generally this is what we see happening. All right, Roger asks, "Will there be a recording later?" There absolutely will. I am recording this and I'll send it out shortly after we're done. Robert asks, "Does Clear Scope help with onpage schema?" So on page schema if you're referring to it as like structured data from a you know uh Google Google perspective the answer is no. We don't help with like a traditional sense of like structured data in these like different things that you know Google outlines is important but we help with the entity relevance component right again looking at one of these drafts what we're giving you insight into is the different entity co-occurrences that should belong to any given topic that you want to create content on content quality and EA A and SEO should be described with as you can see on the right concepts like rankings and search engines and trustworthiness and Google EAT. So we give you insights into the different relevant entities and concepts that the AI algorithms are likely looking for. And just to really show you how this comes to light, right? What the AI algorithms are essentially doing is that they're taking blocks of text that you have um we'll just use this this API example and they're basically reading it through their machine learning as you can see here right entities that show up for this block of text around Google being headquartered in Mountain View at this address so on and so forth is flagging all of these different concepts or entities that belong to this particular block of text. What Clear Scope gives you the visibility into is all of the relevant entities that the machine learning algorithms are actually well trying to look for. And then by giving the AI this sense of relevance and cohesiveness, you improve the AI's willingness to read your content, to site it, and to use it within the response that you're going to get back. All righty. Well, that was a lot. We're right about at time. I'll just quickly take a look at the chat. Um, cool. Well, seems like everybody had a pretty good uh experience here. And so, we'll leave it at that. I will package this up, put this into a nice recording. You'll also get a link to the slides so you can absolutely have the playbook in your hands. And best of luck influencing and winning AI visibility moving forward in 2026. Take care.